---
layout: post
title:  "A soliloquy."
date:   2020-07-18
---

The only driving force in my life is the simple human nature to fulfill my core needs, some of which have been chronically unfulfilled my whole life. Love, acceptance, friendships - it never works out. No matter how many people I reach out to, I always seem to demand more from the sunset than there is, or I prevent myself from doing so out of shame and guilt.

I started reading about terms like [limerence](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Limerence) and [codependency](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Codependency) over the last 6 month or so in order to understand my own thoughts and be able to better explain it. These terms relate to me greatly. If I were to simplify their definitions then limerence is like a constant desire for having your romantic feelings reciprocated or having a crush on someone, only more intense to the point of being unhealthy and obsessive. Whereas codependency, at least in the manner that I will be using it in, is generally a relationship dynamic where one person enables another's constant need define themselves through their primary attachments. This ties very closely to dependent personality disorder, which I may write about in the future.

Reading about these topics made me realize the constant mental loop I am stuck in:
1. Lack of human contact / isolation
2. Unmet emotional needs / craving emotional affection
3. Redefining oneself in order to "earn" affection
4. Not being satisfied with this "earned" affection or doubting the authenticity of it
5. Mental gymnastics → self-sabotage due to not being content with the amount of affection or feeling like it was not "earned"
6. Fear of being abandoned / attachment anxiety
7. Isolation


I have never tried to break out of this loop, in fact I have tried to go through the motions even quicker than I naturally would because the unknown is scary. I do not know what happens if I break this loop, or if I even can, so knowing this loop and living with it seems like a much better choice for me because if I know something then it is less scary. However, lately I have been trying to increasingly start to toe the line of doing something that would irreversibly change me as a person. I do not know what caused this change within me, but I cannot live this "standstill" of a life anymore, something needs to change for better or worse.

There has actually been a lot of development since I wrote the previous part of this post. It has been about a week since what I wrote above, so this part of the post may feel disjointed.

First, I need to address that I had a massive breakdown for the first time in my life a couple of days ago. I made irrational choices, I was lovesick, I tried to throw everything away. I was not suicidal. I wanted to run away from everything. I had an extremely emotional conversation with someone which allowed me to walk through my own thoughts step by step, and realize just how irrational my choices were, and I am very grateful to that person. It made me change my mind, but it does not help me with the core of the issue.

I hate the phrase "learn to love yourself before you can love another". It is horrifically misleading and not useful advice in a majority of situations, I do not know what causes it to be repeated as advice. It is absolutely sickening, it does absolutely nothing but __strengthen the idea that all love is conditional__. All it does is strengthen any preexisting self-hatred. "Oh, the solution to my problem is so simple, I just need to love myself. Why can't I love myself? Why can't I do something so simple? I am inferior, I can incapable of loving myself. If I am incapable of loving myself, I cannot experience love. I hate myself" is an extremely common train of thought that I have. The fear of "not being good enough," and the idea that love is conditional, further plagued by the incessant need to prove to myself that the affection I receive is real, which I'm constantly doubting since it feels like I am simply selling myself as a commodity, putting on my best display for another person, being the person they want me to be, and buying affection like this.

There is also this constant fear of being exposed for the "filthy liar, manipulative and self-centered asshole" that I _clearly_ am for the horrifying crime of "wanting to be loved". I doubt the authenticity of the affection I receive. I start to self-deprecate, become emotionally unstable, and set up trials to "test" their friendship or love. I withdraw and try to make them chase me, while not giving any signals about it at all, and then get even more upset when they aren't able to. Because I never communicated my problems, there's no way for them to know what I want from them. If someone invites me to hang out with them, and I tell them "I feel tired I'm going to sleep" while actually _wanting to be forced_ to hang out with them; there's just no way for them to know.

In some sense, it becomes like a self-fulfilling prophecy. If I continue to self-deprecate like this, the natural conclusion is that eventually the other person __will have had enough__ of me and decide to abandon me. And thus, further reinforcing the fear of abandonment and the feeling of being unworthy of being loved.

After being abandoned, I become even more emotionally needy and desperate for affection, so my constant need to redefine myself for another person intensifies. I latch onto the next person who shows even a tiniest bit of interest in me, and continue to redefine myself because __I just want them to like me already__.

One of the biggest fears I have is being left all alone. I desperately cling onto people like my life depends on it. Once somebody captures my attention, I glue myself onto them with emotional epoxy and refuse to let go. It does not matter how many times they directly or indirectly reject me - I simply refuse to acknowledge the reality. I construct a fantasy world and keep begging the universe to let it become real.

I have tried the best I could to fix myself. I read as much as I could, any information that was available on the internet. I read more self-help books and books for people with conditions like these than any other type of content over the last 6 months. All of that leads me to believe that the only way to improve is to become capable of acknowledging my feelings without acting on them, at least until someone appears who could accept me for what I am. This is the best strategy I have, but knowing that does not make me hopeful whatsoever. It paints a very bleak and dull picture on my future, "continue suffering and suppressing your feelings until you win a lottery."

The rational part of me understands that swallowing my emotions is wrong, and if anything, is probably a big part of what led me here. And at the same time, the shame and embarrassment I associate with my "inability to be loved" causes me to view through the lens of nothing but self-mockery and self-hatred. The idea of people hating me and leaving me when they learn just how needy and attention seeking the real me can be is so entrenched in my conscience that I cannot accept the mere idea of somebody accepting me despite all these problems that I have, __or perhaps for it__.

Almost all of my relationships (both romantic and platonic) seem one sided to me. I am always the needier one, the one desiring attention and togetherness more than everybody else. I'm not even sure if I feel genuine love, or if I just feel a craving for the feeling of being in love or being loved. And it's not as if I've been getting much of it, my life has been a one-sided fight for the affection of others; even if said affection doesn't seem to reach me even if it seems to be offered in plenty. It does not matter how many times I am told that others like me, they enjoy my company; if I feel like the nonverbal language signals rejection, I will still feel miserable. I can't be reassured for longer than a day, when I wake up the next day it feels as though all progress has been lost and I need renewed affirmation that you care about me and I'm not bothering you with my mere presence.

Perhaps this is all just a game of waiting until you get lucky, and I have simply been unlucky for 20 years. I grew up in a very dysfunctional family and around abusive peers. My dad openly cheats on my mom and my mom does not care for about it whatsoever. My dad was 46 when he got married, and my mom was 38. They only got married because Asian culture demands that you must get married and have children, and so they did. A year after they got married, I was born. There was never any love between them, it was a marriage that only served to make society happy. My parents hate each other, they hate me. I hate them both too. And yet I must continue to live in the same household as them, and they must continue to live in the same room as each other because society demands it. I believe I was unlucky before I was even born. 

I have never been hugged by anyone in my entire life. Not by my parents, or friends, or classmates, or cousins, or relatives. I have an immense desire to be hugged by someone, I do not know how it feels. I want to be hugged by someone at least once in my life. I wish somebody existed who could accept me for what I am.
