---
layout: post
title:  "Seeking Attention"
date:   2020-05-21 13:07:56
---

At the time of writing this, I have had twice the 'healthy' amount of caffeine intake, and have not thought about what I am going to write about but I feel a desperate need to write out what I am feeling right now and have some kind of outlet for my thoughts. I feel the need to get my thoughts out of my head before I have even tried to understand what those thoughts are. Loneliness? Anxiety? Desolation? Forlornness? Somehow all of those words come to my head instinctively and yet none of them seem quite right.

Leaving yourself alone to your thoughts can be quite a scary thing if you neglect facing them for a really long time, which is exactly what I have done. I heard this analogy used elsewhere before but it really clicked with my own situation so I will use it here. My mind for the last couple of years has been like a garbage bin filled up to the brim with issues, thoughts, and other important things that needed to be addressed urgently. I keep filling the garbage bin up over and over, ignoring everything until one day it cannot hold in any more garbage and it starts to overflow from the trash can onto the floor. What happens then? I just clean out only the garbage that fell onto the floor and continue filling it up again and repeat this process ad infinitum.

This is the outcome when you are too stubborn to seek attention from friends because you are too afraid of presenting yourself in a way that is objectively less likeable. Perhaps it has nothing to do with my problems, and it would not have solved or eased any of the problems I have. But I still do resent my past self for putting the current me in a situation where I am so afraid of seeking attention and thus betraying people's perception of me that I have to be satisfied with writing out my thoughts on a blog and being content with the mere possibility that it is on the internet, and therefore it is possible for someone to have read it.

I do not know what I want exactly, but I do know that I am very close to my limit. This is not to say I am suicidal; I am definitely not. Fear of death and fact that the act of physically harming your own body seems so taboo to me due to the culture and values that I learned when I was young that I firmly believe no matter how bad or 'unlivable' my life gets, I will never do something as idiotic as ending my own life. I do not know what my "limit" is, or what I even want to change. Or maybe I do but I just do not want to admit it, that is what it feels like often. I do not expect my life to change in any big way in the next coming decade, which is not something a twenty-year-old should be saying but it is simply the truth. My life feels stagnant because there is a lack of purpose or reason to do anything for myself. I do not feel like I am living my own life, or maybe I am simply just lazy but I cannot find the reason to care about my future. Nothing drives me to self-improve, do something for the future me.

The only driving force in my life is the very inconsistent human nature. I can only bring myself to do things that brings me friendships, love, a higher chance of acceptance and more attention. People are more likely to talk to me, be interested in me if I present myself as a commodity that is a beneficial to them. A deal (in this case the deal is an exchange of attention) will not take place unless both the parties involved do not believe they are getting the better end of said deal. So, I must fool them into believing they do have the better end of the deal, by helping them if it is something I can help with. A shockingly large amount of code I have written, math and physics problems I have solved were problems others had that I helped out with in exchange for friendship, or attention. All while fooling them and presenting myself as some nice guy who did their university project for them for free. At some point, I learned that I can make myself learn things or "self-improve" if I can trick my brain into believing it is to earn acceptance from someone, so I actively started to seek it more and more, to the point where it almost feels like a drug addiction. I would like to write more about the love aspect of this, but that is for another time.

There are many problems to solve and I do not know where to begin. Actually, that is not true, I am certain I have tried in the past and failed, and at some point, concluded that my life is a problem that I can no longer solve by myself. I need an external catalyst to make something happen, if I was good at chemistry this would be a clever chemical reaction analogy but I am not.

I do not know if these blogs will be frequent. I will most likely only write if I feel bad enough and there is no immediate way for me to get my thoughts out of my head.